Hello everyone, welcome back to Exploring
Quantum Physics, I'm Charles Clark.
In this lecture, we're just going to, go
through and explore some very
practical tools, for understanding and
using angular
momentum, to tailor to your own
applications.
At least when you look with simple
problems.
And I think these techniques will be
useful to you, in a
variety of other areas of angular
work solving problems in physics and
engineering.
simulation, even video game composition.
So, in previous discussion we found that
any purely, [SOUND]
radial function, has zero angular
momentum, almost by, it's by definition.
There's no variation.
An angle and that for example is
demonstrated by
by this, this [INAUDIBLE]
So, lets look at the some familiar
things to find functions that have
definite and nontrivial angular Momentum.
And we understand the spherical system,
pretty clearly by now.
Okay, so how about the, the three
Cartesian coordinates?
Well,
we've, gone, you've gone through these,
type of calculations before.
Here is the, operation [INAUDIBLE]
operator.
On one of the Cartesian coordinates
returns the other Cartesian coordinates.
So this, this indicates that, when an
angular momentum operates
on a cartesian coordiante, it It works
within a close set.
Whatever it does, it brings back, a linear
combination of others.
And so this is consistent with what you
can show that the the Cartesian
coordinates are members that have a
definite momentum of l.
Equal to one, meaning in quantum mechanics
that value that is in them.
Associated with the motion of, motion
that's
combined to a single set of Cartesian
coordinates, is Associated with an angular
momentum
of h bar, we'd use Planck's constant.
[SOUND].
So, we've found ourselves, some handy
eigenfunctions of angular momentum
with [INAUDIBLE]
the one.
And now, here's what you might call
practical use if
you just, you just multiply those
coordinates by a spherical galsin.
You get, you get a convenient set of
molecular orbitals.
These are often used by chemists in
describing bonding, because
they are, they're orbitals that are direct
along a particular axis.
Here's the.
p1 or px the p2 or p y, p3 or p z.
So these are, these are again things that
have very simple, properties with respect
to angular momentum.
But they can be oriented in space no more
less arbitrary fashion.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So here is a, fairly straightforward light
hearted quiz for you to
investigate some of the other properties
associated with this type of flexibility.
You know, what other things are,
determined by the positioning
of states of angular momentum where you
want them to be.
Okay, so these Cartesian coordinates are
in some sense, you might say chemists.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Choice of [INAUDIBLE]
of eigenfunctions.
They're well, they're well suited to
describing structural relationships.
If you have a carbon ring you might, you
might use Orbitals that are lying along
molecular bonds.
But here's another one.
It's, in some sense a very
straight forward, linear combination of
those three.
It just involves X1 and X2, and X3.
So here are, here are three independent,
choices.
But these have, a definite,
projection, of, of the.
Third L3 the conventional z component of
the angular momentum.
1, 0, and minus 1.
And they satisfy
this relationship.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Which we, the raising and lowering op,
[UNKNOWN]
raising and lowering operators When they
act upon one of these they change
its its magnetic quantum number and 5 plus
or minus 1.
And useful feature of these is that let's
say let's take the 1, 1 which is the
The, the eigenfunction with, m equal, plus
1, L equal 1, and m equal plus 1.
And if we just take if we raise it to an
arbitrary power, We get a
a state with a, with that raising the lth
power, we get
L units of angular momentum along the, the
lth re-axis.
And it turns out that that, that is also
a, an Eigen function of angular momentum
with value L.
So by, by taking, taking successive powers
of, of this,
of either this, this, function or the.
The minus 1, we can go to extremal,
[SOUND]
value of m.
And then, that becomes the, the largest m,
[SOUND].
For a given L.
And one can then use the lowering
operator, for example, to step down and
systematically generate all the,
eigenfunctions of any
given minimum with that particular Value
of L.
[SOUND] Yes here's that constructive
procedure I was just mentioning.
You define these primitives.
You use those with ah,angular momentum of
plus 1 Minus 1.
And then, for example just
take the, the L full product of the plus 1
to get the LL state and then use L minus.
Operating on that, in order to, to step
down, and then just,
repeat as necessary to exhaust, all the,
states of spectrum.
And perhaps, perhaps you can see that,
when
you do this, you're basically creating.
A large polynomial in the, in the three
variables, x1, x2, x3, and then your
the minus operator, l minus is equal to
Lx minus iLy you know, so Lx Lx or L1 I
should say is equal to x2p3 minus x3p2.
What that does is, it keeps the order of a
polynomial the same,
but it just dis, it redistributes
the powers, between the several Cartesian
coordinates.
So, this is, this is an, you know.
Is a little indication, that, when you,
when
you operate in the lowering, the lowering
operator.
You're not changing the, degree of the
polynomial structure.
[SOUND]
Well, finally, if you.
Do a Google search on the phrase spherical
harmonics.
You'll see that they are used in, remain,
remarkable, variety of applications.
For example in,
processing and synthesis of images, and
understand,
trying to give greater realism, in the
apparent properties of reflected light.
it, it turns out that the spherical
harmonic's
an incredibly efficient way, of
representing and encoding information.
They're sort of like the 48 transform, on
the surface of a sphere, and in many
cases as we've seen in some of these
quantum mechanics Problems.
They, they encode, information about an
orbit that extends
throughout all of space, in a very
efficient way.